Example PAM module demonstrating two-factor authentication.

Build and install by running "make install". If you don't have access to
"sudo", you have to manually become "root" prior to calling "make install".

Then add this line to your PAM configuration file:
  auth required pam_google_authenticator.so

Run the "google-authenticator" binary to create a new secret key in your home
directory.

If your system supports the "libqrencode" library, you will be shown a QRCode
that you can scan using the Android "Google Authenticator" application.

If your system does not have this library, you can either follow the URL that
"google-authenticator" outputs, or you have to manually enter the alphanumeric
secret key into the Android "Google Authenticator" application.

In either case, after you have added the key, click-and-hold until the context
menu shows. Then check that the key's verification value matches (this feature
might not be available in all builds of the Android application).

Each time you log into your system, you will now be prompted for your
TOTP code (timebased one-time-password) after having entered your normal user
id and your normal UNIX account password.

If you discover that your TOTP code never works, this is most commonly the
result of the clock on your server being different from the one on your Android
device. The PAM module makes an attempt to compensate for time skew. You can
teach it about the amount of skew that you are experiencing, by trying to log
it three times in a row. Make sure, you always wait 30s (but not longer), so
that you get three distinct TOTP codes.

Some administrators prefer that time skew isn't adjusted automatically, as
doing so results in a slightly less secure system configuration. If you want
to disable it, you can do so on the module command line:

  auth required pam_google_authenticator.so noskewadj

If your system encrypts home directories until after your users entered their
password, you either have to re-arrange the entries in the PAM configuration
file to decrypt the home directory prior to asking for the OTP code, or
you have to store the secret file in a non-standard location:

  auth required pam_google_authenticator.so secret=/var/unencrypted-home/${USER}/.google-authenticator

would be a possible choice. Make sure to set appropriate permissions. You also
have to tell your users to manually move their .google-authenticator file to
this location.
